Rewrite Storyboard scripting (#6735)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Storyboard/Scripting/en.md

# Storyboard scripting

![Screenshot of a storyboard script open in "Code - OSS"](img/osb-example.png "Example of a storyboard script (.osb)")

> **Storyboard scripting** is the process of editing osu! [storyboards](/wiki/Storyboard) via their `.osb` and `.osu` files. These files define the images and effects that create  storyboard videos in-game.

Reviewer: videos are not storyboards

```suggestion
**Storyboard scripting** is the process of editing the [`.osb`](/wiki/Client/File_formats/Osb_(file_format)) and [`.osu`](/wiki/Client/File_formats/Osu_(file_format)) files of a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap). These files define images and effects that create background animations during gameplay, called "[storyboards](/wiki/Storyboard)".
```

Reviewer 2: however, videos can be classified and modified as a storyboard object.

Reviewer: yes, they are the same enum in the code, but they have different tags on the website ([most of the time](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues/7330)), are functionally different and require different workflows. they aren't [listed as storyboard objects on the wiki](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Storyboard/Scripting/Objects) and you can't put commands on them[*](https://discord.com/channels/203050773645492224/484002829728743424/922512230925369374)

Author: its just language im not talking about the Video objects, but ya both "video" and "animation" are unfortunately used in storyboard context and i couldnt think of any other words...

i dont think the description needs to be attributed with "called storyboard" either, or at least sounds weird to me considering the page is a sub-topic of storyboard

will add the links & try to apply general idea tho, i agree "video" could be misleading

Author: juggled some words around here

Scripting is a common alternative to [the game client's storyboard editor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Design) when precision or complexity are required. With a text editor such as [Notepad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Notepad "\"Windows Notepad\" on Wikipedia"), [Notepad++](https://www.notepad-plus-plus.org/), or [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), storyboarders can edit the exact values of [objects](Objects) and [commands](Commands) instead of using on-screen controls. Many storyboarders also make use of [programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_programming "\"Computer programming\" on Wikipedia") to build storyboard files that would be difficult to create manually.

> *Warning: Avoid editing storyboard scripts of a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap) currently open in the [beatmap editor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor). Your work may be overwritten when saving or exiting the editor.*

Reviewer: it's a good warning, but people who edit using the editor usually just spam `ctrl+L`, and exiting without saving seems to works fine from what i've experienced (is this adage still relevant?)

Author: well the article is for everyone even if they dont use it. and ya exiting without saving doesnt do anything ill fix that

## Concepts and file format

<!-- storyboarding concepts should be at the same level as this article, and only details of scripting and the file format itself should be below this article, but sub-articles currently mix together this information -->

See the following articles:

- [General rules for storyboarding](General_Rules)
- [Objects](Objects)
- [Commands](Commands)
- [Compound commands](Compound_Commands)
- [Audio samples](Audio)
- [osu! file toggles](osu!_File_Toggles)
- [Variables](Variables)
- [Shorthand](Shorthand)
- [Cheat sheet](Cheat_Sheet)

<!-- (in a new section) seems like the place to link the top level of a storyboarding guide on the wiki... if there was one! -->

## Community tools

> Various tools have been made by the community to abstract and build upon storyboard scripting, such as ![][flag_FR] [Damnae](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/989377)'s [storybrew](https://github.com/Damnae/storybrew "GitHub repository").

Reviewer: i've listed more tools in [#4827](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/4827#issuecomment-990741545), but i suppose this can be ok to put here for now, although it does make this section very short

Author: oh nice. i'll list the ones that are general purpose & intended for newer storyboarders here, rest can be for some other article

Author: per last comment im gonna keep this as-is, but leave a note about what could be here if stuff from #4827 is added later

![Screenshot of a storyboard script open in "Code - OSS"](img/osb-example.png "Example of a storyboard script (.osb)")

**Storyboard scripting** is the process of editing osu! [storyboards](/wiki/Storyboard) via their [`.osb`](/wiki/Client/File_formats/Osb_(file_format)) and [`.osu`](/wiki/Client/File_formats/Osu_(file_format)) files. These files define images and effects that the [game client](/wiki/Client) renders into background animations during gameplay.

Scripting is a common alternative to [the game client's storyboard editor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Design) when precision or complexity are required. With a text editor such as [Notepad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Notepad "\"Windows Notepad\" on Wikipedia"), [Notepad++](https://www.notepad-plus-plus.org/), or [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), storyboarders can edit the exact values of [objects](Objects) and [commands](Commands) instead of using on-screen controls. Many storyboarders also make use of [programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_programming "\"Computer programming\" on Wikipedia") to build storyboard files that would be difficult to create manually.

> *Warning: Avoid editing storyboard scripts of a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap) currently open in the [beatmap editor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor). Your work on scripts may be overwritten when saving the beatmap.*

Reviewer: it is slightly redundant since the warning is about the scripts anyway

```suggestion
*Warning: Avoid editing storyboard scripts of a [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmap) currently open in the [beatmap editor](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor). Your work may be overwritten when saving the beatmap.*
```
